{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f33\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f34\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f36\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f37\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f38\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f39\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f40\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f41\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f47\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f50\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f52\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f53\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f54\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f55\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Comprehension Examination in Experimental Psychology}{\author David Allbritton}{\operator David Allbritton}{\creatim\yr2005\mo2\dy4\hr14\min52}{\revtim\yr2005\mo2\dy4\hr14\min52}{\version2}
{\edmins5}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1363}{\nofchars7771}{\nofcharsws9543}{\vern8269}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984
\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale90\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\headery1440\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20 Comprehension Examination in Experimental Psychology
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx204\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20 Biopsychology Comprehensive Questions
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 1.\tab 
The capacity for language is a characteristic of humans that has intrigued both philosophers and scientists and led to the creation of an academic discipline (linguistics). Using several examples describe how language skills (speech, grammar, semantics, p
rose, etc.) can influence the structure and functioning of the nervous system and reciprocally how the structure and functioning of the nervous system can affect the manifestation of language skills.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 2.\tab Making a category of \'93the emotions\'94 is a common-sense way of organizing descriptions of our experience. However, it could be argued that \'93emotions\'94
 do not really correspond to fundamental entities. As do a wide array of our sensory and motor behaviors, emotions reflect an analysis of some input that results in a behavior, usually relevant to survival and reproductive success. Defend the notion that 
\'93emotions\'94 do not deserve description as a separate category.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 3.\tab Electrophysiological experiments have demonstrated that nerve cell firing in preparation for a m
ovement can begin slightly before our conscious awareness of intending to make that move\-ment. How do you reconcile that evidence with our common-sense notion that consciousness plays a role in controlling our actions?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 4.\tab The philosopher Daniel Dennett a
rgues that our brains spin stories about whom we are without consciously and deliberately thinking about how to do it. Our narrative selfhood is the product of this process, not its source. Defend Dennett\rquote s position with psychobiological evidence.

\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx204\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Cognitive Comprehensive Questions
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 1.\tab 
Discuss the controversy that has revolved around the issue of false and repressed memories. Consider the evidence, theory, and argument on different sides of this issue. Has this debate produced any important implications for understanding the nature of m
emory? If so, What? Also discuss whether a reconciliation of this issue is possible, and if so, what it might be.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 2.\tab The articles in the reading list touch on at least two major issues in memory research:
\par }\pard \qj \fi-312\li555\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx243\tx555\faauto\rin0\lin555\itap0 {\f2\fs20 a)\tab How should it be studied?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx243\tx555\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f2\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-312\li555\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx243\tx555\faauto\rin0\lin555\itap0 {\f2\fs20 b)\tab How many memory systems are there?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx243\tx555\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li243\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx243\faauto\rin0\lin243\itap0 {\f2\fs20 Compare and contrast the answers to these questions suggested by relevant articles in the }{\fs20 
reading list. In so doing, be sure to clearly state the answer (or competing answers) given to the question, identify the researchers associated with each answer, and outline the empirical evidence for and against each position.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx243\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 3.\tab Text comprehension requires that readers integrate two sources of information: the infor\-
mation contained in the text itself (text-based information), and information that originates outside of the text (context, general knowledge, etc.). Another way of stating this distinc\-
tion is as a contrast between what the text brings to the reader vs. what the reader brings to the text. Which of the following four theories proposes
 the largest role for what readers bring to the process of text comprehension? Rank the four in order from greatest to least emphasis on reader-originating information. Justify your ordering by analyzing the relative importance of text-based vs. reader-or
iginating information according to each of the four. Include specific examples of text-based and reader-originating aspects of comprehension in each theory in your analyses. The four theories are (in alphabetical order): Clark & Gerrig\rquote 
s (1983) theory of word meanings; Graesser, Singer, and Trabasso\rquote s (1994) theory of inference in reading; Kintsch\rquote s (1988) Construction-Integration Model of text comprehension; McKoon and Ratcliff\rquote 
s (1992) theory of inference in reading.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 4.\tab The properties of multiple-trace memory model (Hintzman, 1984, 1986, 1988) have
 usually been examined by computer simulation. Sheu (1992) gave an analytic derivation of the model based on probability theory. Explain what is a process model and what is a mat
hematical model of memory. What are the advantages of having a closed form solution to a process model compared to results obtained from simulation?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx204\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\fs20 Developmental Comprehensive Questions
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 1.\tab Discuss the role of emotion in parent-child relationships and children\rquote 
s social relationships and interactions. Describe how emotions can affect these relationships and how these relationships can result in certain emotions. Draw upon a range of materials including the attachment liter\-ature, Lemise & Arsenio\rquote s mode
l of social information processing and Thompson\rquote s discussion
\par }\pard \qj \li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 of emotional development. Provide enough detail to demonstrate your in-depth knowledge of }{\f2\fs20 this material.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 2.\tab Little Johnny Piaget is playing with his new motorized scooter. Another child approaches him and say \'93That scooter is so cool. Can I play with it? I\rquote 
ll bring it right back.\'94 Little Johnny has to decide what to do. Discuss how a developmental researcher focusing on each of the following areas would try to explain how Johnny would make his d
ecision: 1) models of social information processing (a la Crick & Dodge, Lemerise & Arsenio), 2) attachment thcory (a la Bowiby, Ainsworth, Sroufe), 3) mental representation, theory of mind and children\rquote 
s lying, and 4) moral development (a la Kohlberg, Eisenberg). Provide enough details to demonstrate your in-depth knowedge of these areas.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 3.\tab Piaget described 3 important characteristics of development: a) fixed order, b) qualitative change (rather than quantitative change) and c) structured wholeness of t
hinking within a stage. Explain each of these characteristics. Compare Piaget\rquote s view to the post-Piagetian views of cognitive development (e.g., Siegler\rquote s model). Indicate how well you think Piaget\rquote 
s theory has held up in the light of post-Piagetian research. Justify your answer by referring to research studies presented in class or in the literature (you don\rquote t have to go into detail about the studies).
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 4.\tab Compare Piaget\rquote s theory of cognitive development, Bowiby & Ainsworth\rquote s theory of attach\-ment develop
ment and nativist theories of language development (e.g., Chomsky, Pinker) in terms of: a) the role they give to biology in determining development, b) whether they believe there are universal aspects of development, c) the role they give to environment i
n determining development, d) their treatment of individual differences in development (i.e., differences among children).
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 5.\tab Not surprisingly, Judith Harris\rquote  claim that parents play a trivial role in their children\rquote 
s social and personality development has met with considerable resistance from many developmental psychologists. Review Harris\rquote 
 position (i..e., describe her group socialization theory and some of the evidence she adduces to support it). Then critique her theory by describing alternative theories and empirical research supporting the notion that parents do affect their children
\rquote s development. You don\rquote t have to describe specific details of specific studies\emdash but your critique must be empirically based as well as theoretically based.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 6.\tab Briefly describe Ainsworth\rquote s four categories of infant attachment and the four mothering
\par }\pard \qj \li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 characteristics she believes promotes the development of a secure attachment relationship. Do all developmentalists agree with Ainsworth\rquote s
 claim that these mothering characteristics completely determine an infant\rquote 
s attachment category? Also, according to Ainsworth and Bowiby, why should securely attached infants develop into well-adjusted children and adults? Do all developmentalists believe
 that securely attached infants will always grow up to be well-adjusted children and adults? Explain your answers by referring to the readings and material that I presented in class.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 7.\tab Compare nativist and connectionist accounts of language development. What are the roles of biology vs environment within each point of view?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx204\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 Social Comprehensive Questions
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 1.\tab One of the many proposed psychological gender differences is that compared to men, women are more concerned with interpersonal relationships. Wh
at evidence exists that women do spend more time dealing with relational issues, especially within the family? At the same time, why might this observed difference not be something that is especially advantageous for women, as so many have assumed, or som
ething that it is even biologically based, as again so many have simply believed?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 2.\tab Drawing on the social psychology reading list, discuss }{\fs22 three }{\fs20 
areas where gender differences are reported. What theoretical perspectives have been put forth }{\f1\fs8 \emdash  }{\fs20 and derception.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 3.\tab 
Current research in Social Psychology has given a lot of attention to the distinction between automatic (unconscious)/heuristic processes, and controlled (conscious)/more thoughtful pro\-
cesses in how we perceive others and ourselves. Summarize the key findings in the literature and integrate them into a larger picture of how we use both automatic and controlled processes in both self-perception and social perception.
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 4.\tab There have been efforts to bridge the gap between social cognition and interpersonal relation\-
ships. Discuss this trend, giving specific examples. What do you see as the potential benefits to each of these areas of research and theory by drawing on the other?
\par }\pard \qj \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs20 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-266\li266\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx266\faauto\rin0\lin266\itap0 {\fs20 5.\tab More than 30 years ago, Bob Zajonc claimed that \'93preferences need no inferences.\'94
 What was the theoretical thrust of this claim What does the research in affect and cognition since then suggest about its veracity?
\par }}